---
title: Java - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - java
---
# Getting Started

Java is a widely-used, high-level programming language known for its portability, security, and robustness. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up a Java development environment and creating a simple Java application.

## Step 1: Install Java Development Kit (JDK)

1. Visit the Oracle JDK download page: [https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-jdk11-downloads.html)

2. Download and install the latest version of the Java SE Development Kit (JDK) for your operating system.

3. Follow the installation instructions provided for your platform.

4. Once installed, you can verify that Java is installed correctly by opening a terminal or command prompt and typing:

    ```bash
    java -version
    ```

## Step 2: Set Up Your Java Project

1. Create a new directory for your Java project:

    ```bash
    mkdir my-java-app
    ```

2. Navigate into your project directory:

    ```bash
    cd my-java-app
    ```

## Step 3: Write Your Java Code

1. Create a new Java file for your application, e.g., `Hello.java`.

2. Open `Hello.java` in your favorite text editor.

3. Write your Java application code. For example:

    ```java
    public class Hello {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            System.out.println("Hello, Java!");
        }
    }
    ```

4. Save the file.

## Step 4: Compile and Run Your Java Application

1. In your terminal, navigate to the directory where your `Hello.java` file is located.

2. Compile your Java file using the Java compiler (javac):

    ```bash
    javac Hello.java
    ```

3. Run your Java application using the Java Virtual Machine (java):

    ```bash
    java Hello
    ```

4. You should see the message "Hello, Java!" displayed in the terminal.

## Step 5: Exploring Java Features

1. Java provides many features and capabilities, including object-oriented programming, platform independence, automatic memory management, and more.

2. You can write Java code to build various types of applications, including desktop, web, mobile, and enterprise applications.

3. Explore the official Java documentation and tutorials for detailed guides, examples, and best practices: [https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/)

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Java application. From here, you can explore more advanced Java features and build powerful applications for different platforms.
