---
title: Node - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - node
  - javascript
---
# Getting Started

Node.js is a powerful JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up Node.js development environment and creating a simple Node.js application.

## Step 1: Install Node Version Manager (nvm)

Node Version Manager (nvm) allows you to easily switch between different versions of Node.js. Follow the instructions below to install nvm:

1. Visit the nvm repository on GitHub: [https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)

2. Follow the installation instructions for your operating system.

3. Once installed, you can use nvm to install and manage different versions of Node.js.

## Step 2: Install Node.js

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Use nvm to install the latest LTS (Long-Term Support) version of Node.js:

    ```bash
    nvm install --lts
    ```

3. Verify that Node.js is installed by checking the version:

    ```bash
    node --version
    ```

4. Verify that npm (Node Package Manager) is installed by checking the version:

    ```bash
    npm --version
    ```

## Step 3: Setting Up Your Node.js Project

1. Create a new directory for your project:

    ```bash
    mkdir my-node-app
    ```

2. Navigate into your project directory:

    ```bash
    cd my-node-app
    ```

3. Initialize a new Node.js project:

    ```bash
    npm init -y
    ```

## Step 4: Creating Your First Node.js Application

1. Create a JavaScript file named `app.js` in your project directory.

2. Open `app.js` in your favorite text editor.

3. Write your Node.js application code. For example:

    ```javascript
    const http = require('http');

    const hostname = '127.0.0.1';
    const port = 3000;

    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.statusCode = 200;
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/plain');
      res.end('Hello, Node.js!');
    });

    server.listen(port, hostname, () => {
      console.log(`Server running at http://${hostname}:${port}/`);
    });
    ```

## Step 5: Running Your Node.js Application

1. In your terminal, navigate to your project directory:

    ```bash
    cd /path/to/your/project
    ```

2. Run your Node.js application:

    ```bash
    node app.js
    ```

3. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`. You should see the message "Hello, Node.js!" displayed in the browser.

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Node.js application. From here, you can explore more advanced features and build powerful applications with Node.js.
