---
title: Express - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - node
  - framework
  - tutorial
---
# Getting Started

Express.js is a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features for web and mobile applications. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up a simple Express.js application.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Node.js: You can download and install Node.js from [here](https://nodejs.org/).
- npm (Node Package Manager): npm comes bundled with Node.js installation.

## Step 1: Setting Up Your Project

1. Create a new directory for your project:

    ```bash
    mkdir my-express-app
    ```

2. Navigate into your project directory:

    ```bash
    cd my-express-app
    ```

3. Initialize a new Node.js project:

    ```bash
    npm init -y
    ```

## Step 2: Installing Express.js

1. Install Express.js as a dependency:

    ```bash
    npm install express
    ```

## Step 3: Creating Your First Express.js Application

1. Create a file named `app.js` in your project directory.

2. Open `app.js` in your favorite text editor.

3. Import Express.js:

    ```javascript
    const express = require('express');
    ```

4. Create an instance of Express:

    ```javascript
    const app = express();
    ```

5. Define a route:

    ```javascript
    app.get('/', (req, res) => {
        res.send('Hello, Express!');
    });
    ```

6. Start the server:

    ```javascript
    const PORT = process.env.PORT || 3000;
    app.listen(PORT, () => {
        console.log(`Server is running on port ${PORT}`);
    });
    ```

## Step 4: Running Your Express.js Application

1. In your terminal, navigate to your project directory:

    ```bash
    cd /path/to/your/project
    ```

2. Run the following command:

    ```bash
    node app.js
    ```

3. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`. You should see the message "Hello, Express!" displayed in the browser.

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Express.js application. From here, you can explore more advanced features and build powerful web applications with Express.js.
