---
title: Echo Tutorial
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - go
  - framework
---
# Getting Started

Echo is a high-performance, minimalist Go web framework that is designed for simplicity, speed, and flexibility. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up an Echo application and creating a simple web server.

## Step 1: Install Echo

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Use `go get` command to install the Echo framework:

    ```bash
    go get -u github.com/labstack/echo/v4
    ```

## Step 2: Write Your First Echo Application

1. Create a new directory for your Echo application:

    ```bash
    mkdir my-echo-app
    ```

2. Navigate into your project directory:

    ```bash
    cd my-echo-app
    ```

3. Create a new Go file for your Echo application, e.g., `main.go`.

4. Open `main.go` in your favorite text editor.

5. Write your Echo application code. For example:

    ```go
    package main

    import (
        "github.com/labstack/echo/v4"
        "net/http"
    )

    func main() {
        // Create a new Echo instance
        e := echo.New()

        // Define a route handler
        e.GET("/", func(c echo.Context) error {
            return c.String(http.StatusOK, "Hello, Echo!")
        })

        // Start the server
        e.Start(":8080")
    }
    ```

6. Save the file.

## Step 3: Run Your Echo Application

1. In your terminal, navigate to the directory where your `main.go` file is located.

2. Run your Echo application:

    ```bash
    go run main.go
    ```

3. Your Echo application should now be running and listening for incoming requests on port `8080`.

## Step 4: Test Your Echo Application

1. Open your web browser or use a tool like cURL to send a GET request to `http://localhost:8080`.

2. You should see the message "Hello, Echo!" displayed in the response.

## Step 5: Exploring Echo Features

1. Echo provides many features out of the box, including routing, middleware support, request and response handling, and more.

2. You can define route handlers, middleware, error handling, and custom HTTP handlers using Echo's intuitive API.

3. Explore the official Echo documentation and guides for detailed information, examples, and best practices: [https://echo.labstack.com/](https://echo.labstack.com/)

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Echo application. From here, you can explore more advanced Echo features and build powerful web applications with ease.
