---
title: Flask - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - python
  - framework
---
# Getting Started

Flask is a lightweight Python web framework that is simple, easy to learn, and ideal for building small to medium-sized web applications. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up a Flask development environment and creating a simple Flask application.

## Step 1: Install Flask

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Use pip, the Python package installer, to install Flask:

    ```bash
    pip install Flask
    ```

## Step 2: Creating a Flask Application

1. Create a new Python file for your Flask application, e.g., `app.py`.

2. Open `app.py` in your favorite text editor.

3. Write your Flask application code. For example:

    ```python
    from flask import Flask

    app = Flask(__name__)

    @app.route('/')
    def hello():
        return 'Hello, Flask!'
    ```

4. Save the file.

## Step 3: Running Your Flask Application

1. In your terminal, navigate to the directory where your `app.py` file is located.

2. Set the `FLASK_APP` environment variable to your application file:

    - On Windows:

        ```bash
        set FLASK_APP=app.py
        ```

    - On macOS and Linux:

        ```bash
        export FLASK_APP=app.py
        ```

3. Run the Flask development server:

    ```bash
    flask run
    ```

4. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5000`. You should see the message "Hello, Flask!" displayed in the browser.

## Step 4: Exploring Flask Features

1. Flask provides many features out of the box, including route decorators, templates, request handling, and more.

2. You can define routes, render HTML templates, handle form submissions, and interact with databases using Flask extensions.

3. Explore the official Flask documentation for detailed guides, tutorials, and examples: [https://flask.palletsprojects.com/](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/)

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Flask application. From here, you can explore more advanced Flask features and build powerful web applications with Flask.
