---
title: Redis - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - database
  - nosql
---
# Getting Started

Redis is an open-source, in-memory data structure store known for its high performance, flexibility, and versatility. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of installing Redis, connecting to it, inserting data, retrieving data, and performing some basic operations using the Redis CLI.

## Step 1: Install Redis

1. Visit the official Redis website to download Redis: [https://redis.io/download](https://redis.io/download)

2. Download and install Redis for your operating system. Follow the installation instructions provided by Redis for your platform.

3. Once installed, ensure that the Redis service is running. You can start or restart the service as needed using system-specific commands.

## Step 2: Connect to Redis

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Connect to the Redis server using the Redis CLI by executing the following command:

    ```bash
    redis-cli
    ```

3. You should see a Redis command prompt indicating a successful connection to the Redis server.

## Step 3: Insert Data into Redis

1. After connecting to Redis, you can insert data into it using the following command:

    ```bash
    SET key value
    ```

   Replace `key` with the name of the key and `value` with the corresponding value you want to set.

## Step 4: Retrieve Data from Redis

1. After inserting data into Redis, you can retrieve data from it using the following command:

    ```bash
    GET key
    ```

   Replace `key` with the name of the key whose value you want to retrieve.

## Step 5: Perform Basic Operations

1. Now that you have data in Redis, you can perform basic operations such as updating and deleting data.

   - To update the value of a key:

     ```bash
     SET key new_value
     ```

   - To delete a key:

     ```bash
     DEL key
     ```

## Step 6: Explore Redis Data Structures and Commands

1. Redis supports various data structures such as strings, hashes, lists, sets, and sorted sets.

2. Explore the Redis documentation to learn about different data structures and commands available: [https://redis.io/documentation](https://redis.io/documentation)

Congratulations! You've just completed the basic steps to get started with Redis. From here, you can explore more advanced features and capabilities offered by Redis.
