---
title: DynamoDB - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - database
  - nosql
---
# Getting Started

Amazon DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database service provided by AWS, offering seamless scalability, high availability, and low-latency performance. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of creating a DynamoDB table, inserting data, querying data, and performing some basic database operations using the AWS Management Console.

## Step 1: Create a DynamoDB Table

1. Open the AWS Management Console in your web browser.

2. Navigate to the DynamoDB service.

3. Click on the "Create table" button.

4. Enter a name for your table in the "Table name" field.

5. Specify the primary key for your table. Choose a partition key and, optionally, a sort key.

6. Configure additional settings such as provisioned capacity, auto scaling, and encryption as needed.

7. Click the "Create" button to create the table.

## Step 2: Insert Data into the Table

1. Once the table is created, you can insert data into it using the AWS Management Console.

2. Click on the "Items" tab in the table details page.

3. Click on the "Create item" button.

4. Enter the attribute values for your item in the editor provided. DynamoDB uses JSON format for data representation.

5. Click the "Save" button to save the item to the table.

## Step 3: Query Data from the Table

1. After inserting data into the table, you can query data from it using the AWS Management Console.

2. Click on the "Query" tab in the table details page.

3. Specify the query parameters such as the partition key value, sort key value, and any additional filter conditions.

4. Click the "Run" button to execute the query.

5. You should see the results of the query displayed in the console.

## Step 4: Perform Basic Database Operations

1. Now that you have a table and data in it, you can perform basic database operations such as updating and deleting items.

2. Use the AWS Management Console to explore the available options for performing database operations, such as updating item attributes, deleting items, and managing table settings.

## Step 5: Access DynamoDB via SDKs and APIs

1. DynamoDB provides SDKs and APIs for interacting with tables and items programmatically.

2. You can use AWS SDKs for various programming languages or directly invoke the DynamoDB API endpoints to perform database operations from your applications.

3. Refer to the DynamoDB documentation for detailed information on using SDKs and APIs: [https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/)

Congratulations! You've just completed the basic steps to get started with Amazon DynamoDB. From here, you can explore more advanced features and capabilities offered by DynamoDB.
