---
title: Kotlin - Get Started
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - kotlin
---
# Getting Started

Kotlin is a modern programming language that is concise, expressive, and interoperable with existing Java code. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up a Kotlin development environment and creating a simple Kotlin application.

## Step 1: Install Kotlin

1. Visit the Kotlin official website to download the latest version of the Kotlin compiler: [https://kotlinlang.org/docs/tutorials/command-line.html](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/tutorials/command-line.html)

2. Follow the installation instructions for your operating system.

3. Once installed, you can verify that Kotlin is installed correctly by opening a terminal or command prompt and typing:

    ```bash
    kotlinc -version
    ```

## Step 2: Writing Kotlin Code

1. Create a new Kotlin file for your application, e.g., `Hello.kt`.

2. Open `Hello.kt` in your favorite text editor.

3. Write your Kotlin application code. For example:

    ```kotlin
    fun main() {
        println("Hello, Kotlin!")
    }
    ```

4. Save the file.

## Step 3: Compiling and Running Your Kotlin Application

1. In your terminal, navigate to the directory where your `Hello.kt` file is located.

2. Compile your Kotlin file using the Kotlin compiler:

    ```bash
    kotlinc Hello.kt -include-runtime -d Hello.jar
    ```

3. Run your Kotlin application using the Java Virtual Machine (JVM):

    ```bash
    java -jar Hello.jar
    ```

4. You should see the message "Hello, Kotlin!" displayed in the terminal.

## Step 4: Exploring Kotlin Features

1. Kotlin provides many modern language features, including null safety, extension functions, smart casts, data classes, and more.

2. You can write Kotlin code to target various platforms, including the JVM, Android, JavaScript, and Native.

3. Explore the official Kotlin documentation and tutorials for detailed guides, examples, and best practices: [https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html)

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Kotlin application. From here, you can explore more advanced Kotlin features and build applications for different platforms.
