---
title: GO Tutorial
author: Wesley Bertipaglia
tags:
  - backend
  - go
---
# Getting Started

Go, also known as Golang, is a statically typed, compiled programming language designed for simplicity, efficiency, and concurrency. In this tutorial, we'll walk through the basics of setting up a Go development environment and creating a simple Go program.

## Step 1: Install Go

1. Visit the official Go website to download the latest version of Go: [https://golang.org/dl/](https://golang.org/dl/)

2. Download the appropriate installer for your operating system.

3. Follow the installation instructions provided for your platform.

4. Once installed, you can verify that Go is installed correctly by opening a terminal or command prompt and typing:

    ```bash
    go version
    ```

## Step 2: Set Up Your Go Workspace

1. Go follows a convention-based workspace structure. Create a directory for your Go workspace:

    ```bash
    mkdir ~/go-workspace
    ```

2. Set the `GOPATH` environment variable to point to your workspace directory. Add the following line to your shell configuration file (e.g., `~/.bashrc`, `~/.bash_profile`, `~/.zshrc`):

    ```bash
    export GOPATH=~/go-workspace
    ```

3. Create the `src` directory inside your workspace:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p ~/go-workspace/src
    ```

## Step 3: Write Your First Go Program

1. Create a new directory for your Go program inside the `src` directory:

    ```bash
    mkdir -p ~/go-workspace/src/hello
    ```

2. Navigate into the directory:

    ```bash
    cd ~/go-workspace/src/hello
    ```

3. Create a new file named `main.go`:

    ```bash
    touch main.go
    ```

4. Open `main.go` in your favorite text editor.

5. Write your Go program. For example:

    ```go
    package main

    import "fmt"

    func main() {
        fmt.Println("Hello, Go!")
    }
    ```

6. Save the file.

## Step 4: Run Your Go Program

1. In your terminal, navigate to the directory where your `main.go` file is located:

    ```bash
    cd ~/go-workspace/src/hello
    ```

2. Run your Go program using the `go run` command:

    ```bash
    go run main.go
    ```

3. You should see the message "Hello, Go!" displayed in the terminal.

## Step 5: Exploring Go Features

1. Go provides many features, including strong typing, concurrency support, built-in garbage collection, and a rich standard library.

2. You can write efficient and scalable programs in Go, suitable for various domains such as web development, systems programming, and more.

3. Explore the official Go documentation and tutorials for detailed guides, examples, and best practices: [https://golang.org/doc/](https://golang.org/doc/)

Congratulations! You've just created and run your first Go program. From here, you can explore more advanced Go features and build powerful applications with ease.
